For a simulation study one needs a simulation model with output.


General considerations:
does a particular simulation model accurately represent the real world system?
Other issues involved: determining the appropriate level of something.

Validation, verification and extsablishing credibility. 
System - assumptions document - simulation - correct results - results used in decision making process. 


model validation aspects:
only a valid model may be used to make decisions about systemValidation process dependes on complexity and whether an already existing model exists. 
Simulation model can only be approximation
Usage of final performance measures for validation
Validation and credibility
-model and results are credible if decision maker accepts them as correct
-validity and credibility are thus not mutually exclusive. 

Verification of simulation computer programs.
Purpose: debug computer program of simulation model.
Selection of techniques: modular design, code review by more than person. 
Trace-driven debugging: trace displays state of simulated system
-for each event: content of event list, values of variables, etc.
Interactive debuggers
Check if output is reasonable
-use performance measures which can be computed exactly.
Run model under simplified assumptions. 


6 classes of techniques:
collect high-quality infromation and data on the system
Interact with the manager on a regular basis
Maintain written assumptions document and perform structured walk-thorugh
Validate components of the model using quantitative techniques
Validate the output from the overall simulation model. 
Animation. 


Colletion of high-quality info and data on the system
-Conversation with subject-matter experts
-Observation of the system and potential difficulties. 
-Existing theory
-Relevant results from similar simulation studies
-Experience and intuition of the modeler(s)


Quantitative techniques for model validation:
how sensitive is the model e.g. concerning:
-values of paramters
-choice of probability distributinos
-entity moving thorugh the simulated system-level of detail for a subsystem
Important considderations
-proper control of randomness in the simulation
changes in two or more factors of the interest require carefully statistical experimenting. 



Validation of simulation model output 
comparison with an existing system-collect output data from simulation model and existing system-comparison using numerical sstatistics


Output data comparison real system - system output data - model output data -simulation model. 
Compare these two output data.


Classical statistical test are two-sample kolmogorow smirnov, chi-square, mann-whitney, and t-test. 

Insection approaches are basic inspection approaches and correlated inspection approach (trace-driven simulation).
There are also confidence-interval approaches. 


Summary 
Read this and understand it. 




